well just to remind you of some
reporting that we've been getting just
in as I was saying a few minutes ago the
CM brigades has released video footage
showing the launch of its kamakazi
drones into Israeli territory the
military wing of Hamas said it targeted
sites in Israel for the first time since
it's offensive more than two weeks ago
well let's bring in t kamu he's a
professor of public policy at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies T how how
much should we be making of This
development drones being sent into
Israeli territory
uh it's it's important especially that
the land Invasion has been uh delayed so
far we don't see any movement on the
front and this also uh could relate to
this that the Israelis and Americans
know that Hamas has um some tactical
weapons I mean uh kamakazi drones are
very important in these types of warfare
so uh the fact that Hamas is releasing
these images now on videos so it it says
that I'm ready and I maybe I have more
more uh more to show or to use if if if
the war escalates so I I think we take
it into this context but still I mean
the Israeli Army is the Israeli Army it
has a Lifeline support logistical
support from the US the US has is fully
committed to support Israel in its
military operation be it a land Invasion
or something limited so uh so I think
they're doing their
calculations uh carefully and probably
the Americans also they don't want to
see Israel getting into trouble I mean
uh remember uh Anastasia the uh the
Americans had a similar experience in
falja but Gaza is 10 times bigger than
fuja in Iraq so this could be Israel's
nightmare as well and I think the last
thing the Americans want to see is an
embarrassment for Israel in any uh
future invasion in Gaza so they don't
want the Israelis to to to seem
struggling and not able to achieving
their military goal so I would I would
assume that most of the deliberations
and the discussions now uh revolve
around these issues tactical issues what
are the end goals of any uh future
Invasion or military peration inside
Gaza and I think my guess from following
the media and even Israeli media is that
the Israelis are still they don't have
concrete goals they don't know exactly
what they want and how do they want to
achieve it and whether or not they have
all the military capabilities they need
to achieve a full Grand Invasion if
that's a scenario well they keep talking
about how they're willing for this war
to go on for as long as it takes to get
rid of Hamas but I've been wondering
what are the options for Israel um in
the in the event that that actually does
happen we've also seen this this
increased Crackdown in the occupied West
Bank if Israel succeeds in getting rid
of Hamas would they not need some kind
of of Goodwill or some kind of
relationship with the Palestinian
leaders in in rala in order to try to to
create some kind of government structure
that's it's like that's like panadora
book books I mean I mean it's like
opening pador books uh first of all we
don't know how will this war end and
what's Israel's end end goals when it
comes to I mean is it really uh getting
rid of Hamas or weakening Hamas and
making it Irrelevant in the future this
could be another goal possible goal and
the possibility of this evolving into a
regional War as wellah entering also
then this is a game changer as well and
most importantly the willingness of Arab
countries and governments to be a part
of any future solution that involves
let's say uh getting rid of Hamas rule
in Gaza and then some inviting someone
else be an Arab country an Arab force or
the Palestinian Authority in ramala
coming back and having uh a future in in
Gaza after Hamas so these are all big
questions but but I think it's too early
to ask these questions yes these are
rightful questions but so far we have
been
seeing things are moving slow now and
seems the Israelis are recalculating
their options in light of what they see
they tried yesterday to invade Gaza
there was a limited operation they lost
a soldier and three wounded and now
Hamas is showing its kamikazi drones so
I think the Israelis are nervous Gaza is
their nightmare I mean in the Israeli
narrative psychology name it I mean Gaza
has been the nightmare for since decades
I mean there was a famous prime minister
who said I think it was raban like I
wish one day I wake up in the morning I
see Gaza in the Mediterranean not
non-existent so for them it is their
nightmare so and it's not easy and I'm
I'm and for me the the horrifying thing
is the civilians who are stuck in this
we have 2.3 milon Palestinians who have
no say whatsoever in in in the military
operation the military discourse you
know they are civilian same like the
Israeli civilians in Israel but these
are protected they have shelters they
have hospitals to go to but think about
the 2.3 million civilians in Gaza who
have nothing but massacring and all
these kids who are dying and why for
what I mean what's what's their I mean
the Holocaust Survivors the Israelis why
do they want to see what how is this
good for them that these thousands of
kids who die and being massacred by
Israelis how is this good for the
survivors of the Holocaust who also
suffered a lot how I mean future will
judge this so this has to stop I mean
but again we hope we hope that there is
an international will that the Americans
at least wake up and become wiser
because they have experienced similar
similar scenarios in Afghanistan and
Iraq and they they failed to achieve any
military victory in these countries I
don't think Gaza will be uh different
than Iraq or Afghanistan although it's
smaller yes and the its capabilities is
much smaller but they left nothing to
people there so it's going to be a tough
War if they decide to go to achieve
their full Target declared Target so far
which is getting rid of Hamas and I
don't know how so far how a tough war
and and obviously as you're saying that
the toughest for civilians corre Tam
kamu professor of public policy at the
Doha Institute for Graduate Studies
great to have you back in studio with us
thank you so
much